the burden against tyre whale you ships
of tarshish for it is laid waste so that
there is no house no harbour from the
land of cypress it is revealed to them
be still you inhabitants of the coast
land you merchants of Sidon whom those
who cross the sea have filled and on
Great Waters the grain of Shahar the
harvest of the river is her revenue and
she is a marketplace for the nation's be
ashamed o seitan for the sea has spoken
the strength of the sea saying I do not
labor nor bring forth children neither
do i rear young men nor bring up virgins
when the report reaches egypt they also
will be in agony at the report of tyre
cross over to Tarshish whale you
inhabitants of the coast land is this
your joyous city whose antiquity is from
ancient days whose feet carried her far
off to dwell who has taken this counsel
against tyre the crowning city whose
merchants our princess whose traders are
the honourable of the earth the Lord of
Hosts has purposed it to bring to
dishonour the pride of all glory to
bring into contempt all these honorable
of the earth overflow through your land
like the river Oh daughter of Tarshish
there is no more strength he stretched
out his hand over the sea he shook the
kingdoms the Lord has given a
commandment against Canaan to destroy
its strongholds and he said you will
rejoice no more oh you oppressed virgin
author of sight arise cross over to
Cyprus there also you will have no rest
behold the land of the chaldeans this
people which was not Assyria founded it
for wild beasts of the desert they set
up its towers they raised up its palaces
and brought it to ruin wail you ships of
tarshish for your strength is laid waste
now it shall come to pass in that day
that tyre will be forgotten seventy
years according to the days of one king
at the end of seventy years it will
happen to tyre as in the song of the
harlot take a harp go about the city
you've forgotten harlot make sweet
melody sing many songs that you may be
remembered and it shall be at the end of
seventy years that the Lord will deal
with tyre she will return to her higher
and commit fornication with all the
kingdoms of the world on the face of the
earth her gain and her pay will be set
apart for the Lord it will not be
treasured nor laid up for her gain will
be for those who dwell before the Lord
to eat sufficiently and for fine
clothing